Randy Pausch is incredibly inspiring; I hope to live with a sliver of the same enthusiasm, grit, and enjoyment as he had. He lived his life with childlike wonder and so much generosity and authenticity. Other than him being a great role model for how to live your life, a few phrases really stuck out to me regarding embracing criticism, hurdling obstacles, and the value of teamwork. 
It is a bad sign “when you are doing poorly, and nobody is telling you.” We all need to be more open to constructive criticism because that means someone cares, and the person providing it can see us improving. I think most of us avoid criticism because it is uncomfortable, but we never really consider the intent of the criticism. Of course, there can be some unjustified criticism, but it is often there for our own betterment. We can't learn better and be better if we are closed off from knowing what we are doing, furthering us from where we want to be. I also loved the discussion on how placing a bar only does a disservice. We often don’t know what we are fully capable of and don’t allow ourselves exposure to challenges for fear of failure. By placing a cap on what we can accomplish, we limit our imagination of what we can achieve.
“Experience is what you get when you don’t get what you wanted” is a great quote. When we experience setbacks, we improve and become better aware of how to succeed the next time we encounter a similar encounter. I interviewed with several companies before I landed a post-college career. “Brick walls are there to stop people who don’t want it badly enough” is also true; when we are hungry and ambitious, we will keep fighting for what we want because we will never know if we don’t try things out and give things a shot. If we want something, we need to devote our energy toward achieving it, and even in the face of setbacks, keep pushing because even if it doesn’t turn out, good results will come out of our effort, whether that’s another opportunity, skillset, etc.
One of the most important skills we can have in our lives and careers is empathizing with and getting along with people. When we can work well in a team environment, we are going to be able to provide more value in the world because it takes a team to get something huge done. When Randy discussed how body language among teammates was most predictive of success, it made perfect sense because people are more likely to devote themselves to a project if they can collaborate with and enjoy the company of the other people on their team. This is also why being a jerk will limit your opportunities; if nobody likes working with you, it won't matter if you are the best at what you do; you can't get anything done outside of your “circle of control.”
Randy’s speech made me reflect a great deal about my own commitment to learning and growth. Though he had many powerful insights, I focused on those about perseverance, valuing criticism, and working with others because they are areas in which the University of Montana and my career experience have allowed me to develop further. These areas resonated deeply with me because, through my own anecdotal experience, I have felt their contributions to my personal and professional pursuits.
