Prioritizing teaching effectiveness is challenging because of the variety of techniques. I am a verbal learner; lecturing and writing things out helps me understand concepts and make connections better than other learning methods. However, I have found that just grinding out issues is the best method in code and problem-solving. Then, I can think of instances where visual recall works better, as I always forget people's names, but their faces never leave my mind. I might have thought this mismatch lowered my learning efficiency, but now I doubt that.
Popular belief holds that students perform better when utilizing their preferred method of study. However, this may not be the case when considering the research done by Polly Hussman and Valerie Dean O’Loughlin at Indiana University. People generally have a strong sense of their preferred learning method, whether visual, auditory, kinesthetic, intuitive, etc. However, in the study, 70% of people performed no better with their preferred method than with any other method, and of the ones that did, they did no better than anyone else. This suggests that students rely on multiple study techniques. Although it may be comforting to understand better what type of person we are by lumping ourselves into a box of how we prefer to study, limiting ourselves like this is not bettering our performance.
Cognitive science has offered a few methods to enhance our learning that actually do benefit our performance. We should space out study sessions, experience more modalities, test ourselves, and elaborate outside of the provided material. Methods like recopying notes and studying flashcards, the tried-and-true techniques, are inefficient in comparison. Basically, actively and consistently engaging with the material is the best method.
The “What’s Your Learning Style?” quiz provided by EducationPlanner informed me that my preferred learning style is auditory, though the percentages were all quite close. This makes sense, as I am most comfortable when I can hear information and say it out loud with myself, although I will take this with a grain of salt and still incorporate the other methods of study into my learning.

